
# TEM8-2010  
## Translate:  
朋友关系的存续是以互相尊重为前提的，容不得半点强求、干涉和控制。朋友之间，情趣相投、脾气对味则合、则交反之，则离、则绝。朋友之间再熟悉、再亲密，也不能随便过头、不恭不敬。不然，默契和平衡将被打破，友好关系将不复存在。每个人都希望拥有自己的私秘空间，朋友之间过于随便，就容易侵入这片禁区，从而引起冲突，造成隔阂。待友不敬，或许只是一件小事，却可能已埋下离破坏性的种子。维持朋友亲密关系的最好办法是往来有节，互不干涉。

Friends tend to become more intimate if they are congenial both in taste and temper; otherwise they will separate or even break with each other, No matter how familiar and close they are, friends cannot be too casual and behave too freely towards each other, they will break their rapport and balance, and even destroy their friendship. Everyone in the world hopes that they have their own private spaces. If keeping everything at will between each, they tend to enter their own private space, a no-go-area, which easily results in conflict and estrangement with each other. Keeping unceremonious, probably just a trifle, may bury a destructive seed for the friendship. The best way of keeping a close friendship is to keep temperate contacts with each other, and make non-interference in each other. 

## Writing:  
  In order to win more chances to get a satisfying job as well as better adapt to society, some young people begin to consciously develop the `gray skills`, that is, the skills of drinking,  smoking, singing, dancing and so on. According to survey conducted by China Youth Daily, an alarming amount of participants admitted that they deliberately cultivated the `gray skills`. Facing this phenomenon, young students and college career and write your response in about 300 words, in which you should:
1. summarize briefly the opinions from both sides;  
2. give your comment.  

Examples:  
  In modern era when material achievement means everything, it seems that a petty man who is a master of so-called gray skills makes  a more distinguished career than a diligent employee. This social climate inevitably affects today's college students and leads to the popularity  of learning gray skills on campus. As for students, some believe gray skills are indispensable for them to stand out in fierce competition of job hunting and to be more adaptable to society. However, college career advisors are deeply concerned that the illusion of omnipotence of gray skills will exert negative influence on students` ethic, morality and even their future career advancement.
  As far as I'm concerned, gray skills can help you at the beginning bu cannot ensure your success in the end. Firstly, gray skills distract students` attention from study. With much of their time spent in drinking, singing and smoking, graduates have less time for reading and studying.  A bookworm may not be qualified enough in modern society, but a man who is only good at social skills definitely cannot become someone in the future. Secondly, gray skills will ruin integrity. Rumor has it that people who master these skills will climb the social ladder more quickly, which results in excessive infatuation with shortcuts among students. No one is guilty about violating social ethics as long as they can realize their goals. Thirdly, gray skills cannot necessarily guarantee a decent job. Many students rush to master those so-called useful ever, recruit people on the basis of their social skills. After all, it is your professional knowledge that really counts.
  in conclusion, the blind obsession with gray skills will not only mislead college students but also deteriorate the social climate. People who walk down to the earth can finally carve out a niche in the society while people who want to take a shortcut will sigh in regret.
